the ONLY way to BEAT the Instagram algorithm in 2026 - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91CPPZmiPpk

Transcript:
(00:00) There's a reason why the Instagram algorithm doesn't push your content out. It has nothing to do with posting times hashtags, obviously, or SEO even, to be completely honest. Because, frankly, the game was changed with short from changing like crazy. And the algorithms don't work the way they used to just 12 months ago.
(00:17) So in this video, I'm going to show you the whole new and only way to actually build out your Instagram strategy step by step from A to Z. You're gonna know exactly what to focus on, what outdated device to ignore, and how to actually break out and grow predictably with all these changes right now. Now you're probably thinking, well, is this going to work for me? Because I've tried a bunch of device out there.
(00:37) Never works. Everyone's talking about the same things. Well, actually, let me tell you something. I've put over 300 craters through this whole system I'm about to show you from different industry, fitness coaches, breath work pros to people in the, even knitting space. And I can tell you, if you follow and do exactly what I'm about to show you, it's just gonna work.
(00:56) So, for example, Simon here, greetings, by the way. He was stuck at 1400 followers. Basically following it, a lot of the common advice out there, basically everyone who talks about the same, but once he started implementing this exact system, he grew to 185,000 followers within the span of a few months. And don't worry about it.
(01:14) You're not going to need to post 5 times a day and burn yourself out to make this work. Because I've personally had single reels generate over $100,000, not from going viral overnight, by the way, and from being lucky, but actually from a system that keeps working months and months after posting. So here's something I've tracked over the past few months.
(01:33) The algorithm doesn't just reward objectively good content anymore. It actually rewards content that satisfies strangers, kind of the weird way of saying it. And if you're stuck and you're basically seeing 70, 80% of your views coming from your followers and your views dying out and you just can't grow, This is what actually happens behind the scenes.
(01:52) Because when you post real or carousel, Instagram doesn't just show it to your followers. It actually takes it and tests it with a small group of people that don't follow you. And the algorithm then takes an especially close look at those people. Do they swipe away? How long do they actually stay and do they like and when do they actually like your content? We can actually see this in the analytics right there.
(02:12) And if they skip, right, the algorithm says, well, people who don't know this creator, they just don't care, and I'm not going to show it to any more of those kind of people, and your reach and views die there. And the number one problem, and the easiest fix that, um, usually gets my client's results within the 1st few weeks, is Basically flipping the whole script, going away from content that's basically built for people who already kind of know you.
(02:35) So actually creating content that's built for a stranger who could not care less. So the initial question, going into this whole system should never be, well, Dominic, my content good is my hook good. The actual question is, does my content and my hook work for somebody who has never seen me before? And that's how I want you to approach all the other steps going forward from now on.
(02:58) So how do you actually make content that works for strangers? Because there's a few pretty simple frameworks, and it actually starts with something most creators skip entirely. Because... Usually people just go out, they're like, okay, this is roughly my target audience, and this is what I want to do, so let me just create content, and then they just go out and create random content.
(03:16) What they do a lot is because lots of common advice out there says, well, Basically copy what everyone else is doing because that's the only thing that matters. Anyway, right now. And then they do it and nothing really seems to work. Sometimes they get some traction, but it's all random and not really replicable.
(03:31) And the reason why it's random is because people are not really clear who these actual real strangers are. Because to be able to snap these strangers out of their autopilot, swipe and mode, we need to really get clear on who they are. And the simplest way of figuring that out is for you to just be able to answer this one single question.
(03:49) Who are you and why should a stranger care, right? And I'm not talking about, like everyone else says, well, I am a fitness coach and I help people lose weight, obviously, because that's what 100,000 other people already say right now, so that's not going to help you at all. And if you do the same thing and sound like everyone else does, a stranger for sure is going to scroll past and care even less, right? What should we do right here? And this is what I do with basically every client before we touch any piece of content?
(04:16) We build what I call your creator DNA. And it's pretty simple. You're just going to want to finish the sentence right now. Write it down on a piece of paper. We're in your... Notes app. I am blank. I do. Blank for people who blank. And you should listen to me because I blank. So, for example, I am a real estate agent in Vancouver.
(04:40) I help 1st time buyers find homes they never thought they could afford without getting screwed by the market. You should listen to me because I've closed over 800 deals. And other agents hate me for spilling some of these market secrets. So just compare what I just said to. I'm a real estate agent. I'm going to show you some beautiful places, right? Boring.
(05:01) Whereas the other one kind of does something, right? It just piques my curiosity. And that's basically, for example, what one of my clients, Tyler did. Once he understood his real market, right, who he was actually for, what made him different, his content actually changed, and he went from basically no engagement and stagnant growth to drowning in clients, getting views, getting followers, and he even won a breakout agent of the year award.
(05:27) So point being, once you're clear about that whole thing for yourself, right? Your content automatically is not generic anymore, just by the nature of it. is exactly what the algorithm wants and which is exactly what we need for the next step. And here's where most people get stuck again because now you know who you are.
(05:44) But when you sit down to actually create content, you're going to still be like, well, what should I do? What should I actually post right now? What is gonna work? Because everything still feels random. So actually, let me show you a simple system to come up with your next 10 to 20 content ideas that are proven to work.
(06:00) Just promise me to follow exactly what I'm about to say. One of the biggest problems I see with the craters across the board is They are brainstorming basically from scratch every single time they decide to create content. And that takes a lot of time. So, for example, you come up with an idea in the shower and you think it's great, cool.
(06:18) Then you write it down and you start to create it, and then you post it, and then it gets 2 interviews. And that's because you're just randomly guessing and throwing out a bunch of stuff. But we don't want to guess right here with the whole content creation part because we do data driven content marketing.
(06:32) And we actually need a way to know what the algorithm likes and what people really want to see right now on Instagram, right? Not in the cinema, not out there on the street, while they sit down and watch. You know, their feet basically. So here's what to do. You basically go, take your phone. And go on Instagram and type in the 3 biggest search phrases that someone in your audience would look for, right? Super broad things like how to lose weight or home workouts.
(07:00) Whatever your niche is. Try to be really broad and then try to put yourself into your audience's shoes, right? Because you now know who they really are. And the 1st thing I want you to note down is, who are the creators that you see, scrolling through basically this feat? What are the reels and carousels that are getting insane views right now that are being shown there, right? Take some time to even scroll down further.
(07:20) And if you want to go a little deeper, you actually do the same thing. on TikTok as well and on YouTube, because when you type things in there, TikTok and YouTube, you're going to see a bunch of similar other phrases that people searched for, and then you want to go through these again and take these and also put them into Instagram.
(07:36) And once you have that, I want you to write down and save all of these videos that you find. And basically look at these 3 things. First of all, the topic that they're talking about, what is it, roughly, the hook that they were using and any other patterns that you see. Ideally, you're going to put it in some sort of simple spreadsheet.
(07:53) Don't overcomplicate this whole thing for yourself. I actually created an AI tool for my clients where they can, 1st of all, do this research and then have AI spot the patterns. But initially, you need to do these things yourself manually because you want your brain to kind of start to understand what's really going on.
(08:08) And then once you have this, you're going to sit down and ask yourself, What's missing there, right? What do I have to say, for example, about any of this, that is just different? Remember your creator DNA, basically, because your point of view, your experience, or whatever it is about these topics is what makes you stand up.
(08:27) If you do that, you're certainly not just blindly copying what works anymore. You're actually trying to understand why things work, and then trying to understand, like, what's different? What is the gap that I could bring to the table right here? Could be even a small thing, to be honest. So don't go crazy about this.
(08:43) But once you have all of this, including your notes, Basically, you just need to sit down 10, 15, 20 minutes, and write down 20 content ideas, one line each. Don't overthink it just from this list there. And once you have this, you basically have a bank of ideas that are 1st of all not random, you already...
(09:02) have a bunch of your thoughts and gaps that you've identified for yourself. And all of these ideas are based on what's already proven to work in your niche right now, right? Plus filtered through what makes you different. And suddenly the guessing game is totally gone because every time now that you sit down to create, you basically just take a look at this bank, pull an idea and create it.
(09:24) Which leads me right into the next point because I actually see so many creators with great ideas, great topics, but the way their content looks actually kills it before it even has a chance. And this is honestly one of the simplest ways to unlock more views, getting this thing right. Now, here's the thing.
(09:41) A lot of people nowadays think that short form content needs to be raw and authentic because that's what most people say. And it is true, but people always confuse raw and authentic with bat lighting, cluttered background, terrible audio, and things that just feel off. sample, just look at this right here.
(09:58) It's me with a selfie type of video where I actually hold my camera in front of my face. Bat lighting, sort of boring background, and... I could have the best hook ever and nobody's going to listen to me. Because the 1st impression really matters. And people who don't know me are gonna swipe away instantly.
(10:15) With that being said, lighting is actually way more important than the type of camera that you use. You can see it right here, for example, I sit down, put my phone up there. And I don't change anything about the light. Looks already a lot better, obviously, than the 1st selfie type of thing. But there's still something missing, right? Something feels doesn't feel like it has this certain type of...
(10:34) extra than we want from good content, from purposeful content. And here's the simplest trick in the book you can apply right now, honestly. Turn off your actual room light and put up a video light or a big window somewhere. Could be literally just a very cheap soft box that you get off of V-Bite or something.
(10:51) And then you want to turn on what I call some practical lights in the background. By the way, I have here a bunch of them here as well. And, um, you know, if you compare this before, to the after, the same camera, the same iPhone, basically, but it looks 100 times better, and suddenly my hook is going to land so much harder, right? People are just gonna give me the benefit of doubt because I look like somebody's doing this with a purpose.
(11:16) And that's what we're looking for right here. So point being, You don't need an expensive camera. Your phone is most likely good enough. You just need to spend an hour or 2 trying to find or think of waste to make things look good purposeful. And people are going to start to listen to you and stop way, way more.
(11:33) Which brings me to the part my clients and I spent 85% of our time on because this is the thing that makes or breaks literally everything. And here's where things are kind of developing recently, because most people think that a hook needs to sound like a hook, that it needs to be clever and catchy, and it needs to grab attention.
(11:53) So people sit down and they're like, You're zoo, if you got what I mean. But here's the thing. People have changed. And at this point, they've seen so many hunks that they've kind of developed a shield for it, right? Like a fish who kind of knows, well, this is bait right there. You're not gonna catch me this time, mother.
(12:10) So point being... Being clever doesn't really work anymore, and people are sick of it. Also being loud and obnoxious obviously does not really work. What actually works is something way simpler than you might think. Let's take a look at this video and let me show you what I mean. These 3 common mistakes. I see everyone making in the fitness industry.
(12:26) Number one. You can instantly see it's a hook, right? He's trying to bait me into watching some crappy video. That's what I think. And why, by the way? Because I don't know him. If I would know him, obviously I would listen. Now, if we look at this one, which is essentially the same thing, talking about overnight oats as well, It doesn't sound like a hook at all, right? Did you know if you add oats? Chia seeds.
(12:53) Did you know if you had oats and then do this? and then this, right? It sounds like basically somebody's just started talking to me like a friend. Or like you overheard something very interesting. And this is exactly why it works, because it slips right past this shield. It's this beautiful other fish that I want to buy.
(13:08) By the way, I hate fish, so I don't even know why I used this example right there. I wouldn't ever buy it into a fish. But point being, this 2nd one feels so much better and also blew up to 20,000 likes. It's not because it's clever. It really feels like it's an actual person sharing something real. And that's the thing that people respond to right now.
(13:25) So remember, whenever you create a hook, think of it like this. The stranger that's seen this, my video for the 1st time does not want to feel marketed to, does not feel like you're trying to bait him into something. They want to feel like they stumbled onto something real, right? So really just talk like a real person sharing something that's worth sharing.
(13:45) That's basically the whole secret right here. Now this next one is really going to help you get any results at all because most people that fail fail right here. And frankly, the thing that holds 95% of people I work with back is they just don't post enough, right? They have the ideas. They kind of know what to do like you do right now, but they're 2nd guessing every single reel and every single move before they post.
(14:09) Because every time you're actually overthinking and you're like, oh, I'm not going to post this time because it needs to be perfect, you actually stop posting, which means the algorithm starts to forget you. Plus, in order to make this whole system work, in order to grow sustainably and really build something that blows up again and again, We just need the data to see what's really working in your niche because I could tell you a bunch of things to do right now, but you'll only know for sure they work for you and your specific audience.
(14:35) If you put in the work, you post and analyze and draw conclusions based on what you see from actually posting. Because a lot of things sound good at paper in the real world, a lot of times they don't. So here's what I want you to do. Go back to your list that you've created before and pick 3 to 5 ideas that you have.
(14:53) Pick a day, whenever that is for me, it's Monday, for example, and start scripting and writing them out, right? Basically go through this video again. Think of the hook. Is it clear for a stranger? Does it look good, right? Does it speak to your audience? And then we have written out 3 to 5 videos, reels for carousels.
(15:10) You'll just pick another 3 to 5 and do it again. And what you're going to notice is that the 2nd badge is going to flow so much easier because your brain is already in creation mode, right? And sure enough, At the end of the day, you'll have 10 to 20 videos, realtor carousels, written out and ready to go.
(15:27) Just after a few hours of work. The next thing, obviously, a day later or something. You simply sit down and film them back to back. Point being, by structuring and batching the different stages of content creation, you're going to end up saving so much time, and your brain is suddenly so much freer for all the other things that are important.
(15:45) Which leads me to how to scale this thing up. And this is where things become fun. Because a lot of the people that come to me, they're like, well, my analytics are all over the place. Some reels get 20, 30, 50,000 views. The next one gets 500. I'm stuck with 3000 views. Whatever it is, sometimes have a great week.
(16:04) Sometimes I do the same things I did. In a highly performing one, and suddenly it still doesn't work, and I have no idea what's happening right there. And the problem is that most people look at their analytics the wrong way. Which literally makes them not being able to scale because they check one reel and they're like, well, this one flopped, so let's not do this again.
(16:22) And then they move on to the next one and do the same thing again. Now, what you should really do is don't take a look at the individual realty just yet. actually zoom out and look at the big picture and the patterns. you see right there. So let me show you an example from one of my clients, Simon, right? If you remember, he's blown up to basically 185,000 followers within a few months.
(16:42) And after posting a lot, right, according to the research phase, he basically noticed, spotted a few specific freeing works and angles that his audience reacted to and responded to way more than anything else he did. For him, it was basically reacting in a certain way to top performing content and then adding something to it, right? His personality and actually trying, testing things, these things life.
(17:06) And point being, he didn't try to reinvent the wheel every time. He basically found out what his audience really wanted to see and expanded upon that. Now, if you look at this whole thing now, looks like an overnight success, but it's actually the result of careful planning and scaling. And if we would have taken a look at the individual piece of content at the beginning, especially when nothing really worked, Would have not worked.
(17:26) So the less... for you right now is spot some of these patterns. First of all, which pieces of content got you the most views, right? Just write them down. Second of all, which pieces of content got you the most followers? Chances are they're different, actually? Same thing with comments and engagement general.
(17:45) But basically take a look at what is going on. What are patterns? Maybe there's one type of real that you create were the common depth is a lot higher. Where you get really deep comments on something like this as opposed to just a 3 emoji response. And 3rd of all, and most people skip this because it kind of hurts.
(18:03) But it's really the most important one. Look at the content that completely flopped, right? The one that underperformed because that's actually the most valuable data that you have. Because... There's going to be some patterns that really tell you what not to do and that something wasn't right. And if you do these things over time, What's going to happen is you 1st of all start to build a list of things that actually work and things that don't work for you, for your audience.
(18:27) And your content naturally starts to get sharper and better every single week because you stop guessing and you're making decisions based on what the algorithm is telling you right there, a.k.a. your actual audience. A lot of people I work with actually get caught by surprise how fast you can actually grow just by doing this.
(18:44) Now here's the thing. Views and followers are not going to help you and do anything if you can't build something sustainable, right? Something real with that. And this next one's going to change the game, and it honestly, that for me. Because once I understood that, I went from not really caring about views too much anymore.
(18:59) to frankly making a lot of money. It's also going to act as your safety net should Instagram burn down at some point, like MySpace Dip, when Ashton Kutcher bought it. But I see it all the time. Creators who are getting a lot of views and followers are not able to generate real substantial money from it because they're like, well, sponsorships and blah, nobody's gonna buy whatever.
(19:20) And truth be told, fuck sponsors, right? Get this whole idea out of your head. I stopped taking sponsors a year ago. They're just usually a pain in the ass to work with, and I've had actually a fair share of experience with this. I could write a book, a crazy one. So I stopped taking them and you're going to stop taking them as well if you follow what I'm about to show you.
(19:40) Because 1st of all, if you have your own products, services, whatever it is, they're always just going to be way more valuable and profitable than anything a sponsor could ever pay you, right? So, for example, in my... This one real right there has made me close to $100,000. This one, so far, $38,000. And the reason is not because they got a lot of use, right? This was actually a byproduct, plus they are some of the slow burner reels that don't just blow up once.
(20:09) They're just slowly doing their thing. The reason they're able to sustain my business so well, honestly, have nothing to do with Instagram itself, because the sales that were made, and the, you know, sign-ups that I got from these, Were basically made by sending emails. These reels just help me get people on my email list.
(20:26) So let's go back to this whole system that we just talked about and add another layer to it. Basically, the layer that gets targeted viewers on your email list so you can sell stuff or do whatever you want with them, basically. Because you own them. And not Instagram. So what we basically need to do is create something that you give away for free that you can attach to some of those videos that we talked about.
(20:46) Once or twice a week should be enough to attach these kinds of freebies to your video. And then you essentially connect a tool like mani chat, for example, to it, and have it delivered automatically if people come in a specific trigger work. So, for example, this one, right? I have people comment the word search and then I'll send them an SEO blueprint, right? Something that looks like this and people get added to my email list.
(21:11) And right after they get into my email list, I sent them a lot of valuable emails. sometimes offers. And basically people then, because of that sign up for my mentorship, And here's where it gets really awesome. And this is why I'm super excited for the future of Instagram and short term content. Because there's one thing I've only started to notice recently, if you create a reel with a freebie attached to it like this one, that truly hits what people really want in your audience, the reel's not going to stop growing.
(21:39) I actually have reels that are still generating comments, still collecting leads, six, seven, 8 months after I posted them, like this one. And the other beauty of the whole system in place is that you don't really need a ton of use if everything is really dialed in according to the strategy. For example, a client of mine, Gordon, shout out.
(21:58) He had one optimized reel, and he's not a big account. Maybe now he is because he blew up because he followed the system. But basically one optimized real... brought him $400 in recurring membership sales within a single day. And the real took him literally 8 minutes to create what he said. And this is where it all comes together, my friends, because once you've gone through everything I show you and you keep doing it, Something's going to click, and you're going to understand exactly which types of videos give you more views, which ones give you
(22:26) followers, because that's a different thing, and which ones actually make people reach out to you and want to work with you or buy your stuff. And once you get there, You then have a systemized way of growing and getting people in your email list and getting them towards your offers or whatever you have.
(22:40) And all you have to do from down on is just post, and you're just gonna grow, because you know how to do that, and basically make money every single time you publish a reel or post a story. Because the machine keeps running and suddenly it doesn't even matter whether you blow up or go viral with one specific piece of content.
(22:56) Because you've actually, like I said, build the system, the feeds itself, and it's not dependent on one reel, going crazy or the algorithm having a good day or a bat day. And I've actually, sometimes it's actually a bad thing to go viral because I've literally had to close my mentorship once because the amount of people that came in from a single reel made things clock up for months.
(23:14) Now, obviously everything we talked about so far is just scratching the surface, right? I've been doing this for years, a decade, actually, crazy, helping creators from all around the world, in different niches and background, master a system for their specific situations. So if you want me to help you with that, click the link below, apply for a call and we're going to take a look at how and if we can actually help you.
(23:35) I actually have a mentorship where we help you install this whole system with advanced AI tools. Lots of life calls tons of one on one support. So apply down below, hop on a call, and we're going to explore if something fits and what fits for you specifically. With that being said, seeing this whole process laid out is one thing.
(23:50) But what usually helps me personally grasp things like that even better is seeing somebody Do these things in a real world example. So watch this video next where I'll take a few of you guys and fix the problems that we just talked about live on air.